# Introduction {#Introduction}

Since its publication in [@!RFC6749] and [@!RFC6750], OAuth 2.0
("OAuth" in the following) has gotten massive traction in the market
and became the standard for API protection and the basis for federated
login using OpenID Connect [@!OpenID]. While OAuth is used in a
variety of scenarios and different kinds of deployments, the following
challenges can be observed:

  * OAuth implementations are being attacked through known
	implementation weaknesses and anti-patterns. Although most of
	these threats are discussed in the OAuth 2.0 Threat Model and
	Security Considerations [@!RFC6819], continued exploitation
	demonstrates a need for more specific recommendations, easier to
	implement mitigations, and more defense in depth.
    
  * OAuth is being used in environments with higher security
    requirements than considered initially, such as Open Banking,
    eHealth, eGovernment, and Electronic Signatures. Those use cases
    call for stricter guidelines and additional protection.
	  
  * OAuth is being used in much more dynamic setups than originally
	anticipated, creating new challenges with respect to security.
	Those challenges go beyond the original scope of [@!RFC6749],
	[@!RFC6750], and [@!RFC6819].
    
    OAuth initially assumed a static relationship between client,
    authorization server and resource servers. The URLs of AS and RS were
    known to the client at deployment time and built an anchor for the
    trust relationship among those parties. The validation whether the
    client talks to a legitimate server was based on TLS server
    authentication (see [@!RFC6819], Section 4.5.4). With the increasing
    adoption of OAuth, this simple model dissolved and, in several
    scenarios, was replaced by a dynamic establishment of the relationship
    between clients on one side and the authorization and resource servers
    of a particular deployment on the other side. This way, the same
    client could be used to access services of different providers (in
    case of standard APIs, such as e-mail or OpenID Connect) or serve as a
    frontend to a particular tenant in a multi-tenancy environment.
    Extensions of OAuth, such as the OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration
    Protocol [@RFC7591] and OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata
    [@RFC8414] were developed in order to support the usage of OAuth in
    dynamic scenarios.
	  
  * Technology has changed. For example, the way browsers treat
	fragments when redirecting requests has changed, and with it, the
	implicit grant's underlying security model.
	  
This document provides updated security recommendations to address
these challenges. It does not supplant the security advice given in
[@!RFC6749], [@!RFC6750], and [@!RFC6819], but complements those
documents.
	  
## Structure

The remainder of this document is organized as follows: The next
section summarizes the most important recommendations of the OAuth
working group for every OAuth implementor. Afterwards, the updated the
OAuth attacker model is presented. Subsequently, a detailed analysis
of the threats and implementation issues that can be found in the wild
today is given along with a discussion of potential countermeasures.

## Conventions and Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL
NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED",
"MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as
described in BCP 14 [@RFC2119] [@RFC8174] when, and only when, they
appear in all capitals, as shown here.

This specification uses the terms "access token", "authorization
endpoint", "authorization grant", "authorization server", "client",
"client identifier" (client ID), "protected resource", "refresh
token", "resource owner", "resource server", and "token endpoint"
defined by OAuth 2.0 [@!RFC6749].
